this is our cabbage plot we've planted
our cabbage from seed last spring it is
an old Irish variety called quarter hawk
since October we've been harvesting
cabbage it is January now and the
cabbage kept well despite frost and rain
the outer leaves start to turn brown but
further in the cabbage is still perfect
and today you're going to make
sauerkraut or in Bricker behind me
cabbage in Ireland people don't really
eat much sauerkraut where I grew up we
had it for breakfast lunch and dinner so
literally all the time and I quite miss
it sometimes
I have a special cabbage grater which my
mum gave to me and I can shred the
cabbage with ease the cabbage head is
not very tight so I have to keep pushing
it together while I grate it is very
sharp
now I weigh the cabbage because I want
to add the right quantity of salt one
two hundred for sauerkraut so for these
one and a half kilos I need 15 grams
sold approximately one tablespoon I also
add a capsule of lactic acid bacteria I
could also use buttermilk which would
work just as well to start the
fermentation process then I start
massaging the cabbage with my hands and
soon there's liquid running off the
cabbage which is good when it looks like
this I stop and fill the cabbage into
preserving jars I make sure to divide
the liquid evenly between jars then I
crush the cabbage further with a rolling
pin because we don't eat that much
sauerkraut we make it in small jars
rather than one of those big sauerkraut
earthen pots it's more practical I put a
clean cabbage leaf on top and push
everything down once more it is
important that the cabbage is completely
covered with liquid as the fermentation
process is an aerobic and would be
disturbed if air could reach the cabbage
the jars remain room temperature for two
days then we move them into a cool room
for two weeks then we have a first look
some people wait for six weeks
but we find that often the crowd is sour
enough after two weeks oh dear this one
looks like it's not gone according to
plan it looks a bit rotten and it smells
very foul sometimes this can happen and
we just throw it out this jar looks and
smell is good
you can see how the crowd rose during
fermentation and the liquid is at the
bottom some people try to avoid this by
putting a weight like a stone on top of
the cloud okay so hype the tape
let's try sour sour and crunchy sour
countries all right it's very nice and
not one leaf was wasted in the process
you